.TH gwhois 1 "26 Apr 2012" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
gwhois \- generic whois client / server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gwhois [-C dir] [-h host] [-m method:host mirror] [-L] [-e] [-v] [-?] [query]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gwhois is a generic whois client. It strives to know for all existing
tlds and all ip address ranges the appropriate whois server to ask. You
can simply call gwhois with a query for some domain or some IP and it
will ask the right server for you! It can even query webforms which
are unfortunately the only query type supported by many bad registries.

gwhois can also be used as a whois server. You can call it from the
inetd and make it accessible via a normal standard whois client. This
allows for example using a windows client and still make use of the
enhanced features of gwhois.
.SH OPTIONS
Try find information about the query (might be multiple words).
If no query is given, use the first line from stdin

 Options:
   \-C dir                  Setting an alternate configuration directory
                           default: /etc/gwhois
   \-h host                 Selecting a fixed whois server for this query
   \-m method:host mirror   Defining a mirror for a given method and host.
   \-L                      Use lynx \-source instead of LWP::Simple
   \-e                      Do not protect e\-mail\-addresses
   \-v                      Output version of pattern table(s)
   \-?, \-\-help              Printing this text

.SH FILES
.TP
.IB /etc/gwhois/pattern.d/*
The pattern file(s) of gwhois. Contains the list of domain and IP to
server mappings. It is in a machine readable regexp format but should
be easy to understand by humans, too. If you have additions and
corrections please report them always to the authors!
Attention: IPv4, IPv6, TLD and ASN pattern files will be replaced
when the script
.B gwhois\-pattern\-update
is executed.
The domain pattern file will only be extended without overwriting or deleted anything.
.TP
.IB /etc/gwhois/debconf.inc
File created depending on debconf question sending mail. Please do
not change manually but instead use dpkg\-reconfigure!
.TP
.IB /usr/share/gwhois/maintenance/pattern\-generator/gwhois\-pattern\-update
You can run this script to get the latest information according to IPv4, IPv6, ASN and TLD
resources from the RIRs. The
.B pattern.d/(ipv4_*|ipv6_*|tld|asn)
files will be overwritten.
.SH DIRECTORIES
.TP
.IB /usr/share/gwhois/maintenance/
In this directory you will find programs which you can use to maintain the pattern files.
.TP
.IB /usr/share/gwhois/subprogram/
In this directory you'll find "sub programs". They are called by gwhois by definition in the
pattern file and can do complex parsing. You can also call the sub programs independently.
.TP
.IB /var/cache/gwhois/maintenance/pattern\-generator/
In this directory,
.B /usr/share/gwhois/maintenance/pattern\-generator/gwhois\-pattern\-update
will save its downloaded RIR statistics files. If you run the script multiple times (e.g. via cronjob)
and the RIR statistics file has not changed yet, this will save traffic because the file will not be
downloaded twice.
.SH AUTHORS
2010\-2019 Daniel Marschall <daniel\-marschall@viathinksoft.de>

1998\-2012 Juliane Holzt <debian@julijane.de>

Some early parts by Lutz Donnerhacke <Lutz.Donnerhacke@Jena.Thur.de>
.SH VERSION
2019xxxx WIP
