.TH vgwhois 1 "23 May 2019" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
VGWhoIs \- ViaThinkSoft Global WhoIs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgwhois [-C dir] [-h host] [-m method:host mirror] [-L] [-e] [-c] [-v] [-?] [query]
.SH DESCRIPTION
VGWhoIs is a generic whois client. It strives to know for all existing
tlds and all ip address ranges the appropriate whois server to ask. You
can simply call VGWhoIs with a query for some domain or some IP and it
will ask the right server for you! It can even query webforms which
are unfortunately the only query type supported by many bad registries.

VGWhoIs can also be used as a whois server. You can call it from the
inetd and make it accessible via a normal standard whois client. This
allows for example using a windows client and still make use of the
enhanced features of VGWhoIs.

.SH OPTIONS
Try find information about the query (might be multiple words).
If no query is given, use the first line from stdin

 Options:
   \-C dir                  Setting an alternate configuration directory
   \-h host                 Selecting a fixed whois server for this query
   \-m method:host mirror   Defining a mirror for a given method and host
   \-L                      Use lynx \-source instead of LWP::Simple
   \-e                      Do not protect e\-mail\-addresses
   \-c                      Do not try to convert to UTF-8. Output server's stream
   \-v                      Output version of pattern table(s)
   \-?, \-\-help              Printing this text

.SH TOOLS
.TP
.IB vgwhois\-pattern\-update
This shortcut leads to the script is located in
.B maintenance/pattern\-generator/vgwhois\-pattern\-update
and can be used to get the latest information according to IPv4, IPv6, ASN and TLD
resources from the RIRs. The
.B main/pattern/(ipv4_*|ipv6_*|tld|asn)
files will be overwritten. You can run this script as cronjob to have up-to-date
pattern files. New TLDs are automatically added to the pattern files.
However, changed whois server names need manual changing of the pattern files.

.TP
.IB vgwhois\-qa\-check
This shortcut leads to the script is located in
.B maintenance/qa\-monitor/run
and performs some basic checks to determine if pattern files need an update.
For example, it will be checked if whois servers in the list are dead.

.TP
.IB vgwhois\-update
If you have installed VGWhoIs via SVN, an SVN update will be performed
to download the latest version of VGWhoIs and its pattern files.

.SH DIRECTORIES

.TP
.IB main/
Contains the main executable and other libraries.

.TP
.IB main/pattern/
This directory contains the pattern files of vgwhois which
contain a list of domain and IP to
server mappings. It is in a machine readable regexp format but should
be easy to understand by humans, too.

.TP
.IB main/subprograms/
In this directory you'll find "sub programs". They are called by vgwhois by definition in the
pattern file and can do complex parsing. You can also call the sub programs independently.

.TP
.IB maintenance/
In this directory you will find programs which you can use to maintain the pattern files.

.SH AUTHORS
2010\-2019 Daniel Marschall <daniel\-marschall@viathinksoft.de>

1998\-2012 Juliane Holzt <debian@julijane.de>

Some early parts by Lutz Donnerhacke <Lutz.Donnerhacke@Jena.Thur.de>
.SH VERSION
20190523

